Project Description

This project, implements the Minimum Spanning Tree (MST) of a weighted undirected graph,
using the Prim’s algorithm. We consider the nodes in the graph to be numbered from 0 to n – 1. This
means a graph with 4 nodes, has nodes named 0, 1, 2 and 3. The nodes may be connected with
undirected edges. Each edge has a weight (a positive number and of double type) associated with it.

Class Specification

The Weighted_graph class represents a weighted undirected graph. One of its methods obtains the
minimum spanning tree of a graph, using Prim's algorithm.

Member Variables

double **graph_matrix;

Constructor

Weighted_graph ( int n = 50 )

Construct a weighted undirected graph with n vertices (by default 50).Throw
illegal_argument exception if the argument is less than 0.

Destructor

~ Weighted_graph ()
Cleans up any allocated memory.

Accessors

The class has the following accessors:

● int degree( int n ) const - Returns the degree of the vertex n. Throw illegal_argument exception
if the argument does not correspond to an existing vertex. (O(1))
● int edge_count() const - Returns the number of edges in the graph. (O(1))
● double minimum_spanning_tree( int m ) const - Returns the total weight of the minimum
spanning tree of those nodes which are connected to vertex m. Throw an illegal_argument
exception if the arguments do not correspond to existing vertices.
● double adjacent( int m, int n ) const - Returns the weight of the edge connecting vertices m and
n. If the vertices are equal, return 0. If the vertices are not adjacent, return infinity.
● bool is_connected() const - Determines if the graph is connected.

Mutators
The class has the following mutator:
● void insert( int m, int n, double w ) If the weight w < 0 or w = ∞, throw an illegal argument
exception. If the weight w is 0, remove any edge between m and n (if any). Otherwise, add an
edge between vertices m and n with weight w. If an edge already exists, replace the weight of
the edge with the new weight. If the vertices do not exist or are equal, throw an illegal
argument exception.
